aws-ecr: add page (#6134)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/aws-ecr.md

# aws ecr

> Push, pull, and manage container images.
> More information: <https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/ecr/index.html>.

> - Authenticate Docker with your default registry (username is AWS):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Authenticate Docker with the default registry (username is AWS):
```
We try to avoid `you`, `your`, etc.

> - Authenticate Docker with the default registry (username is AWS):
> 
> `aws ecr get-login-password --region {{region}} | {{docker login}} --username AWS --password-stdin {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Authenticate Docker with the default registry:

`aws ecr get-login-password --region {{region}} | {{docker login}} --username {{username}} --password-stdin {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com`
```

Author: Correct me if I am mistaken. For general usage with ecr, the username is AWS.

Author: I note that username is AWS, because that is what AWS sets it to when you use ecr.

Reviewer 2: I imagine most don't use the default username.

Also from what I have seen here, we only use examples for the variables when its something people might not understand otherwise, a username is a simple concept 

While (for example) something like a block device on Linux might not be understood

Reviewer 3: Let's keep `AWS` here — it's not a username that a user would pick out, like an IAM user or anything.

> - Authenticate local container manager to your default registry (username is AWS):
> 
> `aws ecr get-login-password --region {{region}} | {{docker login}} --username AWS --password-stdin {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com`

Reviewer 3: I think we should just stick with Docker here, and not try to cover all others.  Podman for example may not support `--password-stdin`.
```suggestion
- Authenticate local Docker to your default registry (username must be AWS):

`aws ecr get-login-password --region {{region}} | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com`
```
(also, doesn't `dkr` in the URL stand for docker? :)

Reviewer 2: should that be ` - Authenticate a local`

Author: Having trouble finding anything on .dkr. in the documentation. Assuming everyone uses docker would simplify things.

I might eventually test out ecr with docker alternatives, but right now it wouldn't be a good use of time.

Good idea.

Author: @CleanMachine1 what about "Authenticate Docker with your default registry...."

Reviewer 3: Yeah @258204 I like that better. here
```suggestion
- Authenticate Docker with your default registry (username is AWS):

`aws ecr get-login-password --region {{region}} | {{docker login}} --username AWS --password-stdin {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com`
```

- Create a repository:

> `aws ecr create-repository --repository-name {{repo_name}} --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush={{true|false}} --region {{region}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws ecr create-repository --repository-name {{repository}} --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush={{true|false}} --region {{region}}`
```

- Tag a local image for ECR:

> `docker tag {{container_name:latest}} {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`docker tag {{container_name}}:{{tag}} {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name}}:{{tag}}`
```

> - Give your image an appropriate tag for ECR:
> 
> `{{docker tag}} {{container_name:latest}} {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Tag a local image for ECR:

`docker tag {{container_name:latest}} {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`
```

- Push an image to a repository:

> `docker push {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`docker push {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name}}:{{tag}}`
```

> `{{docker push}} {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`docker push {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`
```

- Pull an image from a repository:

> `docker pull {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`docker pull {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name}}:{{tag}}`
```

> `{{docker pull}} {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`docker pull {{aws_account_id}}.dkr.ecr.{{region}}.amazonaws.com/{{container_name:latest}}`
```

- Delete an image from a repository:

> `aws ecr batch-delete-image  --repository-name {{repo_name}} --image-ids imageTag={{latest}}`

Reviewer: If you always have to use `latest`, it should be
```suggestion
`aws ecr batch-delete-image  --repository-name {{repo_name}} --image-ids imageTag=latest`
```

Reviewer 3: You don't have to — `latest` is the default, implied tag name for all Docker images.  The tag can be anything matching `[a-zA-Z0-9_.-]+` (i.e. numbers, letters, dashes, dots & underscores)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws ecr batch-delete-image  --repository-name {{repository}} --image-ids imageTag={{latest}}`
```

Reviewer 2: My suggestion overlaps with the other suggestion, deal with that one first

Author: I agree with @bl-ue. You can use an arbitrary image tag.

> `aws ecr batch-delete-image  --repository-name {{repo_name}} --image-ids {{imageTag=latest}}`

Reviewer 3: Why not put the token syntax only around `latest`?
```suggestion
`aws ecr batch-delete-image  --repository-name {{repo_name}} --image-ids imageTag={{latest}}`
```

- Delete a repository:

> `aws ecr delete-repository --repository-name {{repo_name}} --force`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws ecr delete-repository --repository-name {{repository}} --force`
```

> - List images in a repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- List images within a repository:
```

This maybe a little controversial

Reviewer 3: I don't see the benefit that it adds. 🤔

Reviewer 2: I think it reads a little better

Reviewer: I like it

> `aws ecr list-images --repository-name {{repo_name}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws ecr list-images --repository-name {{repository}}`
```
